All right, so let's go explore
a few things as we try to get
these tests passing just because I have
more horizontal space and vertical space.
Normally, I use the terminal but
there's a vitest VS Code plugin,
and there's a testing sidebar in VS Code,
we can actually also see your tests,
and that works too.
There's a really great
just plugin as well,
either one of those depending
on what you're using.
So do we have an input field?
Now, we have seen this app.
And again,
in true test-driven development,
maybe you would render the component,
make each test pass, and
then you would know that you had a whole
bunch of tests around this thing.
One day, I aspire to do that.
But generally speaking,
I think that test-driven is great for
making sure you have tests, but the main
value of tests is to continually make sure
that something didn't break behind
your back, right, or accidentally.
And so in this case, we can look for
a new item and make sure it's on there.
Again, this is one of those
tests where if it fails,
we know that we have some set of a problem
here that we need to kinda go deal with.
Ones like this,
I think I joked about before.
When it came time to actually opening up
the poll requests, I might delete some
of these, some of them are to kind of
get in the zone, if you will, right?
And does my test suite work?
Is my render function working?
How's everything doing?
They're mostly to kind of get into a,
quote unquote,
flow state or something along those lines.
We have this getByText, which will find
some element that has this text in it.
The kind of interesting part is,
and we'll see kinda later too,
is there's getBy and then there's queryBy.
getBy will blow up if there's more
than one of that thing, right?
queryBy will actually just find the first.
There's also get all by,
query all by, so on and so forth.
This is one of those
things where it's like,
I mention this now cuz eventually it's
going to be a thing that bites us.
Just kinda trying to put a narrative
arc to our time together here.
So we got this place.
So if I look over the app,
I have a bunch of different options for
figuring out what I
might choose to do here.
Now, I've got this element,
it's got a label.
That's great,
cuz who doesn't like accessibility?
It's got a placeholder.
Cool, it might even have a test ID, right?
All those things are things
I could probably find out.
And so
we can do a number of things in this case.
I'm gonna render it,
and let's do screen.getBy.
And you can see some of the different
options here, we've got the AltText,
DisplayValue, LabelText,
that could be useful, or PlaceholderText.
Either one of these
will work in this case.
Part of this and these are all,
I want to single one.
Part of this is also in the large
app that you're working on,
what's less likely to change?
You know what I mean?
>> Yeah.
>> Maybe this is off topic,
why is there not a getBy ID or
class name like you would have in the dom?
>> Yeah, I mean, Jen, the class name one,
I think we talked about it a little bit,
which is like, that's just expecting,
yeah, the by style issue.
The ID one, I don't know, right?
The IDs also have semantic meaning,
we've got the test ID.
I think it's trying to force
you into best practices, right?
And there are ways to do it, but generally
speaking, I think about that all the time.
I don't actually know insofar that.
I will also say when we get to playwright,
you're gonna see some of
these selectors again, right?
So there was probably some thought
leadership that went into that decision.
So we've got a bunch of options here.
What do you know we're thinking?
We wanna do placeholder or label.
Which one?
What inspires us right now?
>> Label.
>> Label, cool.
getByLabelText, let me go glance at that
UI again, it's called New Item Name.
I feel like I like that answer,
that's probably the right answer.
I like having to do a by label cuz
it means that you actually had to
put an ID on that input field and an HTML
4 and actually make it accessible, right?
It's mostly forcing you into making
good choices on the implementation
side rather than the perspective
from the testing side.
So I mean, if I save this test to kinda
reiterate where we're talking about
before, even if I save this test,
it's still valuable.
Because it's a nice kind of smoke test to
make sure that this thing is on the page,
this thing rendered the way that I expect
it to render, so on and so forth, right?
Some of these tests,
even without an expectation,
can still provide a certain amount
of value in your application, right?
Because yes, and if this was a full
on course just like on unit testing,
I think we'd be a little bit more
disciplined about few things.
But sometimes I think when you
have a large other maybe and
we get to play right stuff,
you'll see how we can do some really
fast stuff to get some test coverage.
That maybe is not gonna win you awards for
best tester on the planet,
which is definitely an image
I'm gonna make later.
But sometimes it's about,
even if you had breath instead of depth,
right, how quickly can you get as much
of your app covered as possible so
in case you need to do that upgrade or
changing?
Sometimes it's not about having the best
tests in the world, it's about having
at least a thin layer of problematic
tests everywhere is maybe step one.
And then you can figure out, okay,
what are the most important places, and
fix that up a little bit, but sometimes
it's about put out the fire first, right?
And so even some of these
real quickly are decent,
and you could probably whip up
a bunch of these for some of the,
either squareliest or
highest traffic components in your app.
There was this rails performance app
called Skylight, and it was like, the way
that would bubble up we needed to focus on
was I believe the term was agony, right?
Which was how slow is it and
how often is it hit in production, right?
Because suddenly, it takes 20 seconds
to load, obviously, 20 seconds,
the browser is terrible, 20 seconds
is still bad, and nobody goes to.
Maybe it's not as bad something
takes three seconds to load as on
the homepage, right?
And so I think that's usually a kind of
interesting part of where you choose to
dedicate your time and energy.
So theoretically,
if it has an input field
with this label text,
I am technically not wrong in this case,
right?
I can say this is basically what I
would have wanted for myself as well.
So this make sure it's on the page,
I think I've spiritually fit what
this test was asking me to do.
Now, again, and I will say this because
some of these are just to kinda
get yourself started, would I keep this
one forever if I had this next one, or
if I had the ability to
add one onto a page?
Honestly, even to that point about
what is the user's perspective,
the user doesn't really care if there's
an input field for adding an item,
they care if they can add an item, right?
And so you might choose to get to a point
where you're actually testing the full
implementation.
I used the term end-to-end
not in the testing term,
but closer to the full experience.
But again, if you're starting with an
application that maybe doesn't have great
test coverage to begin with,
sometimes it's about even a high-level
just set of things to kinda make sure
that nothing is totally falling apart.
We'll get you there faster than trying
to do everything right all the time.